so let me get started on the multitask
multilingual learning part this is kind
of a something that I put at the end
because it seemed less important to me
at the beginning when I made the
syllabus but as this semester has
progressed it's actually become seems to
become more and more important and in
fact many of the kind of
state-of-the-art results for a lot of
the tasks that we're doing here are
using some sort of multitask learning or
something like that so I think it is
this is worth paying attention to if you
want to get if you want to get good
numbers and whatever task you're
interested in so when we're talking
about multitask learning we need to
remember that neural networks are future
extractors so they create some sort of
vector representation of sentences or
words for use in the downstream tasks
and you know it could be a single vector
representation for the sentence or it
could be a single vector for each word
but we might create the single vectors
using a complicated encoder or something
like that and in many cases we can use
the same representations and multiple
tasks so for example word embeddings are
one example that we talked about at the
very beginning which is where we where
we use some sort of other training
objective to get good representations
for words and then use that in
downstream tasks that was the only thing
I talked about then so I'm gonna talk
about some other options here now and in
terms of types of learning just to kind
of get the terminology or get the
terminology clear on the thing said I'm
going to be saying multitask learning is
basically a general term for training on
multiple tasks the definition of task
can be a little bit vague transfer
learning
is a type of multitask learning um in
transfer learning is basically where you
care about one of the tasks more than
any of the others so you might train on
multiple tasks but you only really care
about a particular particular one of
them and domain adaptation is also
something that you will often hear in in
natural language processing this is a
type of transfer learning where in
general the output is the same we were
outputting the same thing like a
translation or tagging or something like
that but we want the handle inputs that
come from many different topics or
genres etc so these are kind of the
definitions that I'm going to go by yes
I explained further yeah so well
multitask learning in my point of view
doesn't necessarily need to have
multiple objectives although let's see
yeah it's kind of it's kind of hard to
see whether there's really a difference
between them or not you know if you
think about your objective or your loss
function or whatever
in most multitask scenarios you're going
to have a different you're going to have
a different loss function it might not
have a different form it might still be
a machine translation loss but you could
define you can split it up into your
loss function defined over different
domains so I guess multitask and
multi-objective are pretty similar
unless somebody wants to disagree with
me okay nobody nobody's disagreeing so I
guess they're they're probably similar
things especially from the point of view
of neural networks yeah so actually
mentioned there is multi kind of multi
objective optimization where your output
is the same but you want to multiple
objective functions to be high and
that's a that's a different thing
basically your it might have a single
task like machine translation but you
want both your blue score and here meet
your score to be high as opposed to just
and that's something completely
different actually so yeah so then
that's a that's a good that's good point
I agree now that they are probably they
mean different things if you're talking
about multi objective in that particular
way and that's something I'm not going
to cover it all here multi objective
optimization okay so then the question
about when to multitask
basically there's a bunch of different
tasks in NLP
just for your assignment or whatever
your project for this class you had a
list of 20 tasks that you could choose
from and many people didn't like any of
the tasks in the list of 20 so there's
obviously a lot of tasks that we can do
at NLP um you can kind of split them up
into the type of data source that you
can train them from and things that can
be trained from only text our language
modeling mostly things that can be
trained from naturally occurring data
machine translation so these are the
ones where we don't need NLP researchers
to create data for us somebody else will
go and create lots of data for us so we
don't need to bother making it and
usually these have much more data than
then you know the ones where we need to
create data and then finally we have
hand labelled data things where we need
something like the penn treebank or
something like that where we actually
have to have linguists or NLP
researchers go in and in label things
and we have each of these in many
languages each of these in many domains
so which tasks do we want to combine
together and this is actually something
that wasn't surprisingly wasn't covered
in the reading although perhaps it might
be obvious so what are the ideas which
one should you use
anybody Oh
so with which wit okay if you if you
want to do multitask training which
tasks should you use for multitask
training like okay let me be more
specific if we want to do multitask
training for summarization where we want
to output a summary to two texts of text
given a document what tasks should we
use for multitask learning it depends
how you quantify smooth in this I don't
know if that it's forgiving forgiving
conclusion that the objective function
becomes smooth there because you're
using a language model but may be easier
to learn maybe yes yeah
um that's that's a very good point and
maybe I'll talk about it later so maybe
you want simple tasks first and then we
want to try harder desks
any other ideas yeah so something like
language modeling so either something
that captures the input distribution or
something that ensures that our
representation maintains all of the
information and B yeah I think I think
those are good
so I guess my rule of thumb number one
is that we should try to increase our
data when we want to do multitasking if
we especially when we want to do
transfer to a specific task it's not as
useful to train on a task where we have
much less data than the task that we
care about so if we want to train on
both parsing and machine translation at
the same time we can get much more data
from machine translation so training on
parsing training a machine translation
system then using it to do parsing will
probably give you a bigger gain then
training a parsing system to help your
machine translation so in general if we
have a specific domain that we're
interested in we'll want to use lots and
lots of data from the general domain
because this increases the amount of
data that we have if we want to do a low
resource language for example we might
want to do training on a high resource
language where we have more data and if
we want to do something where we require
hand labelled text it's probably a good
idea to use plain text or some sort of
some sort of naturally occurring text
than other things so the question was if
we have more data in one of the tasks
when that bias are our parameter updates
and yeah sure I'll talk about that so
this is a general rule if you're
thinking about doing multitask learning
it will be most effective if you go from
high resource scenarios to low resource
scenarios and um it kind of makes sense
but I've seen multitask learning papers
that weren't really thinking about this
as much so I think it's a good idea to
think about it um there are examples but
in almost all of these cases they take a
pre trained parser they parse all of
their machine translation data then they
do a they do a kind of joint learning
thing where they tried to use the
machine translation model to both
predict the parse the parses and the
machine translation output so in that
case they're kind of like creating
pseudo pseudo data they're doing self
training on this automatically parsed
data and hoping that that biases the
model in the appropriate way which that
does seem to help but it's not
straight-up multitask learning with data
and it probably won't if you do
something like that it probably won't
increase your your parsing accuracy at
least not very much if you have a good
model all right okay so my rule of thumb
number two is this was kind of a this is
very hand wavy it's not saying you make
the la surface smoother it's not saying
it's not saying you need to encode all
of the information but it's saying make
sure your tasks actually
related in some way so you don't want to
do something that's completely unrelated
which also makes sense but sometimes
people aren't necessarily thinking about
this or don't necessarily explain this
into introduction of their paper and it
seems like you kind of arbitrarily free
stuff together so one very interesting
example of this it was a very kind of
like cute example that might not be very
practical is there was a method for
predicting I gaze and also doing
summarization at the same time so the
idea is as people read text they tend to
focus on the more important content so
they put eye trackers on people and they
have them read they had them read text
in the they trained in Alice tiem to
both do summarization and predict where
people were looking and it actually
works really well and just straight-up
multitask learning were you trying to
predict both at the same time so I
thought this was a very creative way
that short paper at Nicole or something
like that because it was well motivated
so when you're doing something like this
just make sure like should these tasks
share the same kind of information I
think if you could quantify that in some
way um like whether it makes your
objective function smoother or like some
other property of the distribution that
you come up with that would be even
better than just going by this intuition
but future work okay so let me move on
to two methods for multitask learning so
in standard multitask learning this is
where we actually literally have two two
different tasks and we want the model to
do well on both of them so we don't
particularly care about a particular
task more than the other and we want to
get both um the standard way of doing
this in
in neural networks is we have something
like a shared encoder and we use the
encoder for both tasks in between on
both translation and tagging and in
general it's as simple as randomly
choosing mini-batches from one of the
multiple tasks and then maybe having a
separate decoder for each of the tasks
and there are many many examples of
people doing this
starting from colbert in weston which
was one of the first major you read a
whole survey of all of the things so if
you find your favorite tasks and that
list on the survey you can done you can
find an example of somebody doing
multitasking rather um there was a
question before about with the beaches
and of course you can adjust that
probability however you want
etc it's also common if you're doing
multilingual training to up sample the
West's popular languages to make sure
that you get the same number of mini
batches for each language um any
questions about that okay then the next
one is pre-training this is what you do
when you want to do transfer and when
you actually care about one of the tasks
more than the other one so first train
on one task then another like this so
train on translation and then do tagging
this is most widely used in word
embeddings so korean at all in 2010
showed that this is an extremely useful
way of doing transfer to a bunch of
different tasks and I think they they
evaluated it on three or four different
tasks and showed that where the medics
were useful there um also one thing
[Music]
recently and it's actually one of the
reasons why I've been thinking that this
is more and more important is because
this has been very useful in pre
training sentence representations as
well whether these are representations
for single words in the sentence or for
the whole sentence itself so examples of
pre training encoders it's very it's
common to use language models so
language models are by far the the most
popular way of doing this the reason
being that you can get nearly infinite
language modeling data you can get so
much data in English that your GPU will
not be able to see all of it before more
English data is made so you can get it
as much as you want which means you can
learn very good representations from
this also translation models so there
was a nice paper that basically trained
a translation model and used the vectors
learned by the encoder of the
translation model as representations of
words and basically this this method
basically showed that this translation
model did better than language models
and then shortly after that a new paper
came out that said bi-directional
language models are better than
translation vowels for learning this
kind of thing and now for the next month
or so probably this will be the state of
the art and then it will switch to
something else but basically the idea
the idea here is that you just train a
language model going forward on a a
particular forward language model
predicting the next word a backward
language model predicting the word
backwards and then concatenate both of
them to get a representation of a word
that were a span or the sentence or
whatever
so if you want to get better results on
your task I would highly recommend
taking whatever LS TM you're using in
your model or whatever and just
pre-training it on a lot of data you can
also I actually miss writing this on
this slide but it's also very effective
to pre train the decoder of sequence to
sequence models so if you're doing a
sequence to sequence type task you just
pre train this sequence the sequence
decoder is a language model and then
stick it in and use that in your there
was a good paper at TM NLP on doing this
for machine translation if you can't
find it then email me and it's much
easier to so if you limit yourself to
translation data because the middle
paper said it was better when you
actually you might lose in either amount
or domain specificity because of that I
think my directional language models are
good choice yeah yes it actually wasn't
that common because you can get a lot of
translation data anyway so pre trading
the language model wasn't helping a
whole lot but there was this nice paper
in the MLP that showed this was very
effective so I think
um okay so one important thing to
remember about pre training is actually
if you don't do some sort of
regularization pre-training won't help
you at all
theoretically won't help you at all and
the reason why is won't help you very
much the reason why is basically because
if you pre train and then you run your
model and then you train your second
model on a different test it will
basically just forget everything that
learns during the pre training process
you know it will move the parameters
into a totally different part of the
space so you need some sort of
regularization to prevent this from
happening um and in order to do this the
most obvious one that you probably are
doing without even thinking about it is
early stopping so if you pre train your
models and then you run training on a
different task and do some sort of early
stopping you are doing a type of
regularization in fact you can kind of
show that this early stopping is a form
of implicit regularization that's
preventing your parameters from moving
too far so um this is often enough to
you know keep the parameters in a good
place in the space and ensure that pre
training works well you can also do
something like explicit regularization
so it's what regularization is you do
something like l2 regularization on the
difference between the from the initial
parameters so then the difference that
l2 norm of the difference on into our
objective function and this will prevent
us from getting from getting too far
away and of course we need we need a
constant
sorry I forgot the constant in the the
equation so this would actually be
extremely strong regularization I'd
never want to apply to your mommy
but if you if you had a constant adjust
keep things in the right pair of the
space um another thing is if you do drop
out
combine this with early stopping this is
also a form of regularization yeah
they investigated they investigated
different ways of basically fine-tuning
your model for a machine translation and
what they found was interestingly
dropout early stopping work enough and
this is really good news because dropout
and early stopping are both extremely
easy to implement well the middle one is
actually a bit more difficult I think if
you read this paper and look at their
recipe then that'll be a good thing to
follow and another thing that you can do
is kind of selective parameter
adaptation so this is one form of
regularization that's super strong
regularization essentially that's saying
do not update certain parameters but you
can update other parameters so it's like
infinite regularization on the non
updated parameters and and non infinite
regularization of the others so for
example in cross lingual transfer for
neural machine translation this paper
examined the best perimeters to announce
[Music]
it was a good idea to everything but the
targets the target to the target
embeddings were the ones in the language
that we
in the English language so don't update
the English embeddings but update every
other parameter of the model essentially
and this was this seemed to give them
the best results how does how does one
help l1 or l2 but I haven't yet used l1
very much because l2 is smoother and it
seems to it's easier to optimize with
your standard libraries but l2 doesn't
actually work trivially I've had a lot
of experiences where it doesn't work
super well and when it does work you
need to give it a extremely low
coefficient in general dropout works
works better in my experience but I
definitely have seen people using l2 and
I assume that they tried various things
and that seemed to work for them so you
definitely do see people using it but I
myself if you had much more success with
dramatics
has anyone succeeded with l2 before this
anyone succeeded with dropout so that's
a that's a pretty good vote of
confidence for dropout like on by
defaults yeah so wait wait decay and l2
are essentially similar yeah depending
some might have it on by default some
might not die net used to have it on by
default now it's not on by default
because I found that having it on by
default is actually not a good idea
number one because people don't realize
it's on and number two because because
sometimes it hurts and
it often doesn't help so um but if you
have a weight decay thing that you can
use you can definitely try it
that's an essentially free weight right
and if you have a complicated optimizer
weight decay and l2 are not the same
weight decay and l2 are only the same if
you're using SGD or if whatever
particular if you're using simple SGD or
if whatever particular optimizer you
have implements it correctly and
implementing it correctly can be very
slow for a lot of optimizers so yeah it
depends ok so then another thing you can
do is soft parameter time uh so that
this was covered a little bit in the
reading but basically you share
parameters loosely between the various
tasks and the parameters are regularized
to be closer but not tied in so the
example from this paper is basically a
[Music]
kind of regularized so the parameters
the the words themselves because this is
a multilingual parsing task the words
are not or not mean to be the same they
so we have different orders in different
languages ok so now I'm just gonna go
through a couple examples these also
might be things you want to think about
for any research project that you're
doing just because doing a little bit of
these things can often give you
significantly better results in the
stronger baseline or whatever to work
with um so for domain adaptation you
know you have basically one task but a
lot of the incoming data could be from a
very different distributions so you have
like news text medical text spoken
language and then you want to translate
all of them appropriately
often we have a big grab bag of domains
so we have you know all of these domains
but we care in particular about a
particular one of them like medical and
there's basically two settings one is
supervised and what a supervised
unsupervised
so for supervised we have data in the
target domain I'll talk about all of
these all of these in turn but the most
common way which actually works quite
well is supervised pre training on large
data and then tailoring to domain
specific data by just resuming training
often Oh another thing I forgot to
mention is often when we do pre training
we restart training with the smaller
learning rate than we had for the
original one to keep things from moving
moving too much that's another way of
regularizing your model but this paper
by long at all they did this and this
gave them a huge gain in in machine
translation related stuff but like seven
blue points which is a huge amount also
you can learn domain-specific networks
or features we'll talk about this in a
second and for unsupervised adaptation
we have no data in the target domain and
we want to match the distributions of
the extracted features for example so
supervised domain adaptation through
future documentation um the one way we
can do this is trained general and
domain specific feature extractors than
some of their results so this paper
basically what they did is they had a
one for each domain general domain
encoder would encode the sentence and
then you would you would add the two
representations together and the reason
why this might be a reasonable idea is
because the general domain encoder will
basically extract most of the stuff you
need and then the domain-specific
encoder basically just has to find all
the other stuff that is specific to the
domain it does
have to find you know just things that
will work anywhere but it can find the
specific domain specific features
another way to do this which is much
easier as we append a domain tag to the
input so we the word news and hope that
hope that things will work out this
actually works really well for sequence
to sequence tasks
it will probably also work for parsing
or part of speech begging tasks and the
reason why is simply because the model
now knows you know create the context
specific representations that are
specific to this domain so um if it's
already seen the news tag and it gets
something that's translated in one way
in the news text in another way in the
domain tags in the medical text then it
will be able to discriminate yeah
oh this was for this was for machine
translation but I expect it will work in
most structured prediction tasks
it might I think it would also work
pretty well in classification tasks even
because if you think about it you're
telling it beforehand before that starts
doing an unique coding
look out for the things that are
important for this domain
yeah so the Google the Google nmt one is
on the next slide units doing exactly
the same thing so the first paper to do
this actually was doing it's also a type
of I don't know domain or style
adaptation I guess in little squirts so
this is actually called frustratingly
easy neural domain adaptation or the
paper so it's very much inspired by the
frustratingly easy domain adaptation
paper um where you basically just add
domain specific and domain independent
you could try to try that as well the
good thing about having this in the
encoder is that if you're running like
several layers of bias then it will just
give order if you're doing some
attention for example so it might have
exactly the same effect but you might be
able to be more parameter efficient I
just mentioned also
okay so the next one this is actually
maybe a bit more interesting from my
point of view it's kind of elegant and
beautiful but the idea is unsupervised
learning through feature matching so
that I the idea here is particularly and
things like image image processing
models you can think of a big deep
convolutional neural network that takes
in the image in the first layers and
then it extracts gradually more kind of
semantic features and the in the later
layers and the idea behind this is
basically you take your initial and you
have a few frozen layers that are
basically like your edge extractors or
whatever and these are constant between
all domains then you have a few layers
that just fine-tune during training then
you have a few layers at the end where
you run your images from one domain and
you run your images through you run your
images from your labeled training domain
you run your images from your unlabeled
and you try to ensure that the
distributions of the features match to
match and this is using a method called
multi kernel mean maximum discrepancy
it's a kernel eyes training method that
tries to minimize the discrepancy
between the representations learned so
can anyone guess what happens in 2016 no
yeah against exactly so 15 the reason
why this didn't use games is because
nobody use skins in 2015 now basically
you know you have an adversarial you
have an adversarial network that tries
to discriminate between the features
that were extracted by one domain in
another domain and prevent them from
being distinguishable and I think this
is a bit easier than multi kernel multi
kernel learning I don't know which would
be more staples but both of these have
okay um so now I will move on to
multilingual models are there any
questions about adaptation yep okay so
multilingual I'm gonna separate these
into multilingual inputs and
multilingual outputs so multilingual
inputs is often relatively simple
basically what we do is train a single
large encoder for both of the for both
of the all of the languages absolutely
we can also use an adversarial objective
to help ensure that the information is
shared between the two so I showed this
during the adversarial encoding layers
and by the time we've extracted the
representations we want it to be able to
classify sentiment but not be classified
by its by its language and this is quite
successful in a number of tasks we've
seen that this really really tends to
help the more difficult thing is
multilingual
structured prediction or multilingual
outputs for sequences to sequence models
and this I don't think there's a
consensus that this is really helpful
yet people have tried to make this work
and we haven't seen really huge gains
but basically things are harder when
predicting a sequence of actions or
words in different languages just
because the
predictions are very different so one
simple method to do this is add the
embedded of the expected output to your
models so Mayumi Elspeth was the first
to kind of try this but this was for
language modeling so we had a meeting a
gaming function that basically selected
the information that was useful and then
the easier maybe the easier way to do
this which might be as effective or
maybe not as effective is the let's see
is the method like this where we have
multiple languages we add a token at the
beginning French or Japanese um this was
developed almost entirely simultaneously
in other words like within one day of
each other by two groups one was Alex
Wiles group and one was the Googler
they're actually learning the different
embedding for the words in each of the
languages and think learning a different
languages seems to help a little bit but
um I have not experimented with this
extensively interestingly this allows
for zero shot learning so zero shot
learning is basically where you have
data for French English and Japanese
English for example but you could use it
to to translate between French and
Japanese so you train the French English
system in English French system of
Japanese English system and English
Japanese system and then you just take
in a French input and say translate this
into Japanese yeah this doesn't work
it kind of works it gives you something
that looks like the appropriate target
language but it really without extra
training data you don't get you don't
get great results here um you could
think of zero shot learning for other
tasks so people have only really done
this I believe for four or it's mainly
been mainly been tested in things like
translation but you could think French
English translation is one task Japanese
English translation is another task but
you could take any other two arbitrary
tasks that you want and and try to try
to do zero shot between them oh let you
be creative in thinking of of the tasks
that you could do that um so zero shot
learning doesn't doesn't work very well
as is so but zero shot learning has an
advantage in that if you have like 50
language pairs or 50 tasks you can you
can learn a single model that will
perform all of them for you so this
paper is a recent paper from ACL that
actually has a pretty interesting idea
which is one other way to do this so you
first translate from French to English
then you translate from English to
Japanese and you can make essentially
make training data that allows you to
translate between multiple languages and
so what they did was they created a
teacher network that basically uses this
pivoting method to the probabilities of
generating a particular output and then
they use this model to teach to teach a
zero shot learner or to teach a single
model to translate between all the
languages and they had significantly
more success in
turning a single model that works on
lots of languages and if you tried to do
it without without being okay um so any
questions about stuff so far no okay so
finally I'll move on to the multitask
models um unfortunately there's just too
many instances of this to cover all of
them as you saw in the survey so I
encourage people if you're interested to
take a look yeah plain text or
translated text and use information to
improve the accuracy of another task you
can also try to train on multiple
annotation tasks for example training
with multiple annotation standards or
training different layers for different
tasks so I'll just cover these very
briefly so this is something that you
might not normally think of for multi
task learning but basically it's the
same yes to different disparate
annotated data so for example there for
semantic parsing there's basically three
different comment annotation standards
for how to create meaning
representations so the idea is you just
train similarly for a Chinese word
segmentation there's a bunch of
different ways you can define a word and
each of these has a different annotation
standard and there's another the
reference has disappeared from my slides
but I think it's on the reference list
so you can take a look there um another
really interesting paper this is not an
NLP paper but I kind of like it is there
are very often you will have multiple
annotators that annotate different
pieces of data so let's say you have
let's say you have data
generated by okay in this particular
example they have labels created by
doctors for medical data and this was a
very difficult task even for doctors so
the doctors gave kind of disparate
labels so they trained a different
softmax to basically predict what each
doctor would say what each doctor would
say about that particular image and so
now they have a single model that shares
the kind of like feature extraction
stuff and then different soft axes to
predict the decision of each of the
doctors then what they do is they
ensemble old them together and in the
end use that ensemble decision is the
final decision so they basically train a
committee of doctors and then they have
the committee discuss discuss the result
and and make the final decision and I
believe this ended up being a better
predictor of the committee than any of
the individual we train models or
something like that so I think this is
nice especially a lot of people are
going to be dealing with annotator error
or something like that so this would be
a good way to get um another kind of
interesting idea I'm not sure how much
ie
I'd buy this like whether whether this
is really like necessary or not but it
might be worth trying if you're thinking
about these things is basically you have
these multiple levels so this this was
exactly the idea that we had before
which is where you have speech then you
have syntax then you have semantic
relatedness entailment etc and each of
these is kind of a different level in
your encoder and you train the earlier
levels to do the lower level tasks and
the way your levels you could also argue
that you could just train one big deep
decoder and it would encoder and it
would do just as well but um I don't
know if that this paper just came out
recently
more examination to be done in this
particular task but I think it's a cool
idea if it if it does end up being
important so these are actually the same
model this is just to show that when you
have seven spheres okay so that's all I
have for for multitask learning related
stuff are there any final questions yeah
um I see I see what it means so like if
you add let's say you're doing a linear
regression and if you add variables you
can automatically explain more of the
variance I don't think that is related
to multi-task learning in this sense
because you're not anywhere Inlet
variables
it would be more I believe it would be
more relevant to multi-source like if
you wanted to take in a single sentence
or multiple sentences and then use the
multiple sentences to try to predict
that output that would be like adding
things to your input I think that it's
not really the multicast know so I get
the definition at the very beginning and
transfer learning is multitask learning
where you only care about one task or a
subset of tasks in the other test you
don't mind if your model gets worse on
those tasks and then multi task learning
in general you'll often care about
okay well thanks a lot everybody it's a
little bit early but I'll try to if you
have any questions about projects or
anything I'll try to